HCIDOCS-652: HCIDOCS-356 Updates (#88668)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/bmo-performing-a-live-update-to-the-hostfirmwarecomponents-resource.adoc

// This is included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/ipi/ipi-install-post-installation-configuration.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="bmo-performing-a-live-update-to-the-hostfirmwarecomponents-resource_{context}"]
= Performing a live update to the HostFirmwareComponents resource

You can perform a live update to the `HostFirmwareComponents` resource on an already provisioned host. Live updates do not trigger deprovisioning and reprovisioning the host. To update the `HostFirmwareComponents` resource, perform the following actions:

* Edit or patch the `HostFirmwareComponents` resource.
* Cordon and drain the node.
* Power off the host for 5 minutes.
* Power on the host.

> * Uncordon the node so it can rejoin the cluster.

Reviewer: Suggestion: This summary can be skipped since it's a small procedure that is easy to read.

====

.Prerequisites

* The `HostUpdatePolicy` resource must have the `firmwareUpdates` parameter set to `onReboot`.

.Procedure

. Update the `HostFirmwareComponents` resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch hostfirmwarecomponents <hostname> --type merge -p \ <1>
    '{"spec": {"updates": [{"component": "<type>", \ <2>
                        "url": "<url>"}]}}' <3>
----
<1> Replace `<hostname>` with the name of the host.
<2> Replace `<type>` with the type of component. Specify `bios` or `bmc`.
<3> Replace `<url>` with the URL for the component.
+
[NOTE]
====
You can also use `oc edit <hostname> hostfirmwarecomponents -n openshift-machine-api` to update the resource.
====

. Cordon and drain the node by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc drain <node_name> --force <1> 
----
<1> Replace `<node_name>` with the name of the node.

. Power off the host for a period of 5 minutes by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch bmh <hostname> --type merge -p '{"spec": {"online": false}}'
----
+

> This step ensures that daemonsets or controllers mark any infrastructure pods that might be running on the node as offline. Other nodes will handle incoming requests.

Reviewer: Suggestion
```suggestion
This step ensures that daemonsets or controllers mark any infrastructure pods that might be running on the node as offline while rest of the nodes handle incoming requests.
```

. After 5 minutes, power on the host by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch bmh <hostname> --type merge -p '{"spec": {"online": true}}'
----
+

> The servicing operation commences and the Bare Metal Operator (BMO) sets the Operational Status parameter of the `BareMetalHost` to `servicing`. The BMO updates the Operational Status parameter to `OK` after updating the resource. If an error occurs, the BMO updates the Operational Status parameter to `error` and retries the operation.

Reviewer 2: @johnwilkins apologies for the run-around with this one; I originally used operationalStatus and then changed to Operational Status due to format of "oc describe bmh/mybmh". However "oc get bmh/extraworker-0 -o yaml" does return operationalStatus so let's stich with this as suggested by Shubha. I kind of forgot operationalStatus an actual BMH property.

//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/ipi/ipi-install-post-installation-configuration.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="bmo-performing-a-live-update-to-the-hostfirmwarecomponents-resource_{context}"]
= Performing a live update to the HostFirmwareComponents resource

> You can perform a live update to the `HostFirmareComponents` resource after it has begun running workloads. Live updates do not detach the host from Ironic and reattach it after performing the update. To update the `HostFirmwareComponents` resource, perform the following actions:

Reviewer 2: suggestion: Live updates can be performed on an already provisioned node and do not trigger deprovisioning and re-provisioning of the node. To update the `HostFirmwareComponents` resource, perform the following actions:

> * Update the resource.

Reviewer 2: Edit or patch HostFirmwareComponents Custom Resource
Drain the host.
Power off the host for approximately 5 minutes
Power the host back on
Once the operation is successful, uncordon the host so it can re-join the cluster

<1> Replace `<hostname>` with the name of the host.
<2> Replace `<type>` with the type of component. Specify `bios` or `bmc`.
<3> Replace `<url>` with the URL for the component.
+
[NOTE]
====
You can also use `oc edit <hostname> hostfirmwarecomponents -n openshift-machine-api` to update the resource.
====

> . Cordon the host by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: Drain and cordon the host by running the following command:

You can also use `oc edit <hostname> hostfirmwarecomponents -n openshift-machine-api` to update the resource.
====

. Cordon and drain the host by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc cordon <node_name> <1>
----

> <1> Replace `<node_name>` with the name of the node. The Bare Metal Operator (BMO) updates the `operationalStatus` parameter to `servicing`.

Reviewer 2: <1> Replace `<node_name>` with the name of the node. The Bare Metal Operator (BMO) updates the `Operational Status` of the associated `BareMetalHost` parameter to `servicing`.

(Clarifying to make sure users don't look for OperationalStatus in node instead of BareMetalHost
[devscripts@host15 ~]$ oc describe bmh/ostest-worker-1 | grep -i perational
Operational Status:  OK )

. Power off the host for a period of 5 minutes by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch bmh <hostname> --type merge -p '{"spec": {"online": false}}'
----
+
This step ensures that daemonsets or controllers mark any infrastructure pods that might be running on the node as offline. Other nodes will handle incoming requests.

> . After 5 minutes, reboot the host by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: After 5 minutes, power on the host by running the following command:

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch bmh <hostname> --type merge -p '{"spec": {"online": true}}'
----
+

> During reboot, the servicing operation commences and the BMO sets the `operationalStatus` parameter to `servicing`. The BMO updates the `operationalStatus` parameter to `OK` after updating the resource. If an error occurs, the BMO updates the `operationalStatus` parameter to `error` and retries the operation.

Reviewer 2: During boot
(technically we're not rebooting since the BMH is powered off)

> $ oc annotate bmh <hostname> reboot.metal3.io=""

Reviewer 2: [source,terminal]
----
$ oc drain <hostname> --force
----
+
Power off the node for a period of approximately five minutes. This will ensure any infrastructure pods that may still running on the node are marked as offline by their respective daemonsets and/or controllers and any requests will be handled by the other nodes:

oc patch bmh/<hostname> --type merge -p  '{"spec": {"online": false}}'

( wait 5 minutes )

oc patch bmh/<hostname> --type merge -p  '{"spec": {"online": true}}'

Once the BareMetalHost starts booting back up, servicing operation commences and the Bare Metal Operator (BMO) updates the `operationalStatus` parameter to `servicing`.
